Privacy Policy

In compliance with New Zealand Law, Protection of personal data, we inform you that the personal data communicated will be incorporated into a file owned by the company EXP24K Platform Marketing, a company duly incorporated in New Zealand with NIF B87890588 (hereinafter EXP24K Platform), for the purposes set out below, depending on the type of service requested.

PROMOTIONAL FORM: to send information, news and promotions that may be of interest, related to the activities of EXP24K Platform.

CONTACT FORM: to answer the requests for information that the user has done by this means.

REGISTRATION FORM: EXP24K Platform's service access form.

REGISTRATION FORM: form to access the different services.

Follow EXP24K Platform Facebook Corporate Accounts: personal data that facilitates or enables EXP24K Platform by becoming a follower of Facebook pages.

Follow EXP24K Platform LinkedIn Corporate Accounts: personal data that facilitates or enables EXP24K Platform by becoming a follower of LinkedIn pages.

In all cases, your data may be used to send electronic commercial communications on services marketed by EXP24K Platform, and at any time you may object to such treatment for commercial purposes by sending an email to info@exp24k.com.com.

The User expressly accepts the content of the Terms and Conditions that regulates the provision of services.

The User has recognized the rights of access, rectification, opposition and cancellation, which may be exercised free of charge by sending a communication, attaching a document that proves his identity and expressly stating the right that he wishes to exercise by sending an email to info@EXP24K.com.

EXP24K Platform has adopted the technical and organizational measures necessary to guarantee the security and integrity of the data, as well as to prevent its alteration, loss, treatment or unauthorized access.

The data requested in the different forms of the Web Page are those strictly necessary to attend to your request, which you communicate voluntarily. The refusal to provide the data qualified as mandatory will mean the non provision or impossibility of accessing the service for which they were requested. Likewise, data may be voluntarily provided so that the services offered can be optimally provided.

The user undertakes to communicate to EXP24K Platform as soon as possible any modification and rectification of his personal data in order that the information contained in the EXP24K Platform files is updated at all times.

The USER / A agrees that, in the case of providing third-party data, it undertakes to inform them of the ends indicated in above.
